---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-17
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---

<a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html">E3 Instructions</a>

## Invoice1 
Invoice1 WOD asked us to create a sales receipt for a sale that contains five different products. Instead of “hardcoding” the computations, expressions and variables should be used to compute the needed values dynamically. At the end of the WOD, we should be have an invoice receipt where it will be automatically computed and display the correct values when changing the variable values.

It took me two attempts to complete the Invoice1 WOD at AV time. On my first attempt, I finished the WOD at Sd time, very close to DNF time. I got stuck on step 7 where we have to add an HTML to the file to display a basic table with each of the product, quantity, price, and extended price in one row using a table template. After a few tries, I could not input the right elements and variables to create the table. In the end, I watched the screencast and followed the professor’s recommendation to inspect the instruction page for a copy of the table template. Doing so, I was able to have a table template and edit it with functions and statements that will make the table update values automatically using the variables created at the beginning of the WOD. On my second attempt, I kept in mind of the part where I was stuck and went through the WOD smoothly. 

## Conclusion
Similar to the previous WODs, I previewed the instructions and went through it in my head before attempting it so I understand what it is asking. If I come across concepts that I am uncertain of, I used W3School and reread the section about that element to refresh the information. Before watching the solution screencast, I made sure I attempted all the steps first and really cannot move on anymore. I would only watch the part where I am stuck to find my mistakes and correct myself. 

For the next WOD, I will have to make sure and double check that I used the correct marks within the functions or statements before moving to the next step. This will prevent me from taking a long time to try to look for the errors to fix it. It is hard to go back and look for wrong mark problems when they can look very similar. I will also practice developing the habit of adding semicolons at the end of each code and organizing my coded for better readability. Separating the long codes in different lines will make it easier to look back for mistakes and edit.  
 
