---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment 3
---
<style>
  H4{color:#528AAE;}
</style>

#### 1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
Our ecommerce site sells albums from the Kpop group SHINee. The different product types feature the individual members’ solo albums and the group albums.
#### 2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
We managed to incorporate all the assignment requirements without any notable issues. However, we did run into some problems when working on the admin back-page and some of the IRs, with some functions not working during the process. Nonetheless, we managed to fix the problems and the site is up and running.
#### 3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
I am most proud of the functionality and that everything words properly. As a team, we are bale to implement all the requirements and have it functioning and usable. It may not be perfect, but the basics are all there and the web page looks very nice with all the CSS and UI design of the website. 
#### 4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I am quite happy with all our website because I believe that we worked hard in completing the assignment and creating the website. But if I have to say something, I would say some of the codes could be named better and the star-rating part can be done better to make the reviews more accurate. 
#### 5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
This assignment was a lot different than assignment #2. It required more critical thinking in terms of how all the components would work together. Assignment #2 was implementing a login and registration page, and adding additional security and validations. As for this assignment, we have to embed cookies and sessions to store the users’ information and link it with cart for the items to be checked out. There are a lot of advanced features that we had to use and incorporate on our website. Nevertheless, I had group members to work with and we can help each other rather than working by myself. 
#### 6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
When I ran into a problem, I would search the web to find out what other ways I can implement the thing that I wanted or consult ChatGPT to see if it can point out the error in the codes that I wrote. If I really can’t solve the problem, then I would seek help from Professor Port and he would help address the problem and we work together to solve it. Overall, I would consult and keep my team members updated along with find the problem. 
#### 7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
I think my team worked well together. We were able to divide the work and help each other when there are problems. We commented well among the group so everything is up to date and understands what is going on with the website. 
#### 8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
What did not work well in doing this assignment was the time management and reliance on google searches. We had times planned for certain parts of the website to be done. However, due to our lack of coding experience and understanding of javascript, we took longer than expected in finishing the different parts and needed to seek help from Professor Port. 
#### 9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?
Besides from learning how to implement and use cookies and sessions, I learned how to search more specifically on what I want when using google to find examples. Being specific would avoid a lot of detours and prevent too much trial and errors. Also, sometimes things are a lot simpler than we think, we don’t have to overcomplicate ourselves in writing the codes. 
#### 10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would start on the assignment early and allocate my time better. This assignment was the last one and near the end of the semester, so there were a lot of things that piled up. Starting early would solve a lot of problems allow more time in debugging problems.
#### 11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
I estimate that I spent 25% of my time thinking about how to do something, 40% writing code, and 35% of my time testing and debugging.
#### 12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
Le Yi (myself) 33%: I worked on IR3 and IR5, some part of IR4, and the fixing CSS and UI design of the website.
Monica 33%: She worked on the checkout process, shopping cart, the navbar, and getting the IR4 (adding to favorite) to work. 
Brandon 33%: He worked mainly on the admin backend and helping me solve some problems with IR5 (star rating).
